Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome the Mac OS X Applications
Technology Manager,
David Wright.
Thank you.
Welcome to session 121
of Carbon Events 1.
We're going to do this
one more time today,
so it's good to have it.
This is a really exciting
day today in Hall 2.
The technologies being presented
are amazing and will increase
your productivity tenfold.
This next session is about Carbon Events,
and I just want to hear it.
How many of you want
Carbon Events like yesterday?
I know it's true.
When I was working with the team
to prepare for this presentation,
I just was like so grateful that
today is here because the number
one request from Carbon developers
has been Carbon Events because
of the productivity,
code cleanup, performance gain that
Carbon Events brings
to Carbon applications.
So, would you please give a
big welcome to Ed Voas,
Manager of High Level Toolbox in
Apple Software Engineering Group.
So, the Carbon Event Model is without
a doubt the most significant change
that we've made to the Mac OS Toolbox
since its inception over 15 years ago.
And I'm not just saying
that because I wrote it.
It's actually a fact.
This should change the way that you
think about the toolbox from just
a collection of APIs that you call
in some hopefully correct order,
to a model where the toolbox
does a lot of the work for you.
And you just tap into that event
flow and override things as you like.
So what you're going to learn today:
There's a lot of basic concepts and
terminology that we use whenever
we talk about Carbon Events.
You'll also learn about how
events flow in Mac OS X.
And you'll also learn where Waitnext
Event fits into all of this.
And you'll also learn that I'm right,
and Carbon Events rock!
So, what is Carbon Events?
Carbon Events is the
event system for Carbon.
This isn't something that we stuck
on the side of WaitNext Event and
just kind of grafted it on.
This is the event system.
WaitNext Event actually is built
in terms of this new event system.
But, of course,
you wouldn't go through all the
trouble of inventing this event system
just to put WaitNext Event on top.
There's got to be something more to it.
And, of course, there is.
And what that is,
is there's a completely new way of
getting events into your application.
This is a way where you basically install
handlers on windows controls and menus,
and get events directly
dispatched by the toolbox.
The best part is that this
new event model can be mixed
with the old event model,
meaning that apps that continue
to call "wait next event" can
still take advantage of all the
features that I'll be talking
about throughout the presentation.
So why did we do this?
Well, we wanted to make it really,
really simple to write
a Carbon application.
In fact, it's actually possible to write
a Carbon application in about
seven to ten lines of code.
And we do that by providing all of
the default behaviors that everybody
in the world has ever had to write
in order to bring up a Macintosh app.
We also wanted an event system
that encouraged high performance,
especially on Mac OS X.
We'll go into a little bit of that
as we go throughout the presentation.
We also have all these nutty,
disparate ways of getting
notifications into your application.
We have event records.
We have different
notifications via callbacks.
We also have things like defprocs
for windows controls and menus.
And we wanted a system that
would actually unify all of
those into one consistent,
homogenous model.
And as a side benefit to all of this,
we ended up getting a system
that actually provides much
better support for plug-ins.
This is a model where events can
actually be dispatched directly to
a window that's owned by a plug-in,
rather than having the host application
even involved in the event flow.
So, here's a comparison of the
current WaitNext Event model
with the new Carbon Event model.
So, with WaitNext Event, you know,
it's basically your job to do everything.
You pick up an event from the system
and then you decide what to do with it.
So you have to dispatch the events.
And you typically do this by getting,
say, a mouse down,
calling something like FindWindow,
deciding it's on,
maybe the mouse went down on the window,
and
Based on the result of that call,
then doing something interesting
like dragging the window.
So as a result,
you have to write all this
code over and over and over.
This has resulted in many people writing
their own little skeleton applications,
or things like that,
just to get a simple app up and running.
On the Carbon Event side,
for a pure Carbon Event app,
the main API that you would call
to drive your application is
called RunApplicationEventLoop.
Once you're inside there, that's it.
Your app is running.
And while inside there,
all the events are actually
dispatched by the toolbox to the
appropriate handlers that make sense
for the specific type of event.
As a result of this,
you don't have to write
that boilerplate code.
We've done all the work.
You just do the interesting stuff.
In the WaitNext Event Model,
in order to get time to do
things like blink the cursor or
whatever other periodic tasks
your application might have,
you rely on something called Null Events.
When WaitNext Event didn't have
anything better to give you,
it would hand you a Null Event,
and you would try to do
something interesting with that.
In the Carbon Event Model,
we have a concept called Timers.
You install Timers,
and that's the way your
application gets timed.
In the old world,
the only way to actually
override any aspect of what the
toolbox was doing was to patch.
And obviously you can't
patch in Mac OS X,
but what we do have is the ability to
install event handlers on all of the
objects that the Toolbox supports.
And that is the way you
override Toolbox behavior.
So here's a conceptual picture
of what we're talking about.
At the bottom,
we have the Carbon Event Model.
On top of that, we have Wait Next Event,
Run Application Event Loop.
And on top of that sits your application.
And your application can
call WaitNextEvent or run
Application Event Loop,
but it's also going to talk to the
Event Model directly to do things
like install event handlers or timers.
Now the first new thing to be aware
of is something called the Event Loop.
You'll also hear this
referred to as a Run Loop.
This isn't the event loop
that's in your application.
This is another construct,
very low level in the system,
inside Carbon.
This is essentially where events
arrive for your application.
Its main job is to take events
from the lower level sources and
turn them into a Carbon Event and
put them in your Event Queue.
This is implicitly run for you whenever
you call an API like "wait_next_event",
"run_application", "event_loop", etc.
The best part is that when
you call the event loop,
if there are no events waiting,
your application blocks,
meaning you're not spending
CPU time for no reason.
So, I want to just cover the way
events actually flow in Mac OS X.
So, first, some event comes in,
because somebody clicked the mouse,
so it comes in to some
I/O Kit driver in the kernel.
The kernel just ends up handing
that off to the Windows Server.
The Windows Server is actually
where the interesting part happens,
because the Windows Server has the
knowledge necessary to determine what app
This event should go to.
So it does that by looking at
what the front most process is.
You know, if it was a mouse down,
what window did the mouse happen to hit?
And depending on what
the state of things are,
it'll finally send the event up
into the application's event loop.
And of course,
the event loop just turns around,
creates a Carbon Event,
and puts it in the event queue.
Now the interesting thing to
note in this picture is that
each app has its own event queue.
There's not one global event
queue like there was on Mac OS 9.
The other interesting thing about
the event loop in general is that
you need to run it in order to
get the events in your queue,
which is a little
different from Mac OS 9,
because in Mac OS 9,
all these events came in asynchronously.
They were typically posted
through some interrupt handler.
So once you actually get the
events in your application,
you probably want to
do something with it.
The way you would drive an
application is you can either call
waitNextEvent like you always have,
or you can switch to
runApplicationEventLoop.
Again, runApplicationEventLoop is really
for the pure Carbon Event-based apps.
You wouldn't just drop that in.
I don't think it would do
exactly what you wanted.
But those two APIs actually
dispatch events when they're called.
So while you're inside Waitnext
Event or run the application event loop,
events will get dispatched to any
handlers that you have installed,
provided the event makes
sense for that handler.
If you happen to need to get an
event from the event system and
not have any dispatching happen,
there's a lower-level
API called ReceiveNextEvent.
So let's take a closer look
at what Waitnext Event looks
like in this new system.
So obviously it still works.
Good thing.
The biggest change is
that when it's called,
like I said, events get dispatched.
And this means that an event, actually,
if an event does get dispatched and
handled by some handler that you might
have installed in your application,
it actually does not get
returned to a WaitNext event.
And this is actually the way that
I mentioned that actually helps plugins.
The event will actually get
dispatched to some plugin,
and WaitNext event just never sees it.
Another change from the traditional
Mac OS point of view is that the
sleep time is fully respected,
regardless of whether you're in the
foreground or you're in the background.
Typically, on traditional Mac OS 9,
if your app is in the background,
we respect your sleep time,
but if you're in the foreground,
we will just call you as often
as possible with null events.
So, this is an important distinction.
So you might have some scrolling
animation in your about box or something,
and you'd be wondering,
"Why is it running so slow on Mac OS X?
I thought Mac OS X was
fast." And the point is,
you're actually sleeping,
but you didn't know you were.
So another interesting thing
about WaitNext Event is that
WaitNext Event can actually have
performance implications on Mac OS X,
because it's very typical for an
application to assume that they can
get all this idle time and then just,
you know, sleep for one tick.
And if we have 20 applications running
and they're all sleeping for one tick,
we're really like using all the
CPU and possibly for no good.
It might just be you're updating,
you know, polling for modifier change
or something like that.
Here's a picture,
and it just illustrates what
happens inside WaitNext Event.
What WaitNext Event does is it actually
iterates through the event queue,
and for each event, start at the top,
and we peek at the event,
and we attempt to dispatch it.
If the dispatching is successful,
we remove it from the queue,
we go back and get another one.
If the dispatching is unsuccessful,
then it's a candidate to actually
be returned from WaitNextEvent.
And we do the usual mask test to
make sure the event was actually
something that the caller wanted.
If so, we pull it out of the queue,
we're done.
Else we loop back around.
Now I mentioned
RunApplicationEventLoop is the
A pure Carbon Event way
to drive your application.
And the reason I said
a little bit ago that
If you just plop this in
place of "wait next event,"
it won't do what you expected.
That's because runApplicationEventLoop,
once entered, never exits until something
in your application calls
quitApplicationEventLoop.
So it's expected that you'll
just call this in your app
and then your app is running.
And the flow chart
looks a little simpler.
We just pull an event and we dispatch it.
So I mentioned that timers are
the way to get time in order to
do things like blink the cursor.
So they can be used to do
periodic tasks like that,
or you can also use them
as a one-shot timer.
So you might want something to
time out in a couple of minutes.
The best part about this
is that you can actually
Put the timer code with
the code that wants it.
You don't have to rely on some
outside entity to be gracious
enough to hand you some idle time.
You just say,
"I want idle time," and you'll get it.
A good example of that is Netatext
Control that wants to blink the cursor.
It can install its own timer,
and it will get that
time to blink the cursor.
In some ways this is really
similar to something like
a construct in Power Plant,
where you might have L Periodic,
which kind of doles out idle time.
The main difference, of course,
is that we're actually doing
this inside the event loop.
And we can do it a lot more efficiently,
and we will block at
the appropriate times,
which won't happen in
something like L Periodic.
Another important distinction,
something I just want to clarify,
is that these timers run at task level.
These are not asynchronous
to your application.
They're very deterministic
in when they fire.
and they fire when you
call the event loop.
So when you call wait next event,
your timers will fire.
When you call run application event loop,
And they fire serially,
one after the other.
So it's very well understood when
these things are going to fire.
However,
there are also calls that will fire
timers that you might not expect.
For example, there is an API called
Track Mouse Location.
And we're actually going to
see an example of this later,
and especially in the next session.
But Track Mouse Location is a replacement
for doing your standard mouse tracking.
In order to do this,
what it does is it actually
blocks on the event loop.
So,
you might be tracking a mouse down event,
but timers will be firing.
And this might seem odd,
but it actually leads to some
pretty cool functionality.
The core event type of
Carbon Events is the Event Ref.
This is the replacement
for the Event Record.
This is your new friend.
Essentially, it's an opaque data type,
like most of the toolbox types,
and you get at things inside
this data type with accessors.
If you're familiar at
all with Apple Events,
this is going to seem like
a really familiar type,
in that every event is actually
identified by a class and a kind.
So we might send you an
event of class Mouse,
but the kind is Mouse Down.
We also have,
you can also have an arbitrary
number of parameters on any event.
And you get at them
via some symbolic name,
and they're actually pseudo-type-safe,
just like Apple Events are.
We also have retain
and release semantics.
And if you're familiar with this
from Core Foundation terminology,
you know what I'm talking about.
If you have no idea what I mean,
it's just fancy terminology
for ref counting.
We do that to handle threaded cases.
The best part about EventRefs is they're
not just a one-way communication idiom.
They aren't just "something happened."
They can also be used to retrieve
information from some entity.
For example,
the Window Manager might send a
hit-test event to a Window Definition.
The Window Definition could
actually take that event,
put in the part code,
and then the sender of that
event will get that part code
once the event comes back.
Times are much more
expressive in Event Riffs.
Event records have times
expressed in terms of ticks.
Ticks are very, very coarse-grained,
especially for some of the new
input devices that are coming out.
Things like high-resolution
tablets and stuff,
which really want very,
very fine timestamping of events.
We actually express
this time in a double.
So we use a floating point
type to represent our time,
which might seem a little odd,
but the fact is doubles
have very fine precision.
And though we're currently
using nanosecond granularity
for our event times,
if we can get down some data, whatever,
picosecond granularity,
we don't have to change our data type,
because it still can be
expressed in terms of a float.
And of course,
events are no good unless you
can do something with them.
So obviously you can post
them to the event queue,
but the most important thing is
that you can send them to objects.
And that is what the
Carbon Event Model is all about.
And where you send an
event is an event target.
This is an abstract concept.
But what it is,
is it's just a place to send an event.
And they're normally associated
with some sort of toolbox object.
So if you want to send
an event to a window,
you get the window's event target
by calling getWindowEventTarget.
And each target has a stack of
handlers that have been installed.
And they're a real stack,
so when they get installed,
they get pushed on top of other handlers
that might have already been installed.
So the topmost handler is
basically who gets the event first.
And that handler could
turn around and say,
"I handled it," or could decide, "No,
I didn't handle it.
Let somebody else deal with it."
and it does that basically by
returning the right OS status result.
And this is the overriding idiom.
This is the way you override
and customize the toolbox.
Just by the mere fact that
you've installed a handler means
you're overriding something.
You're going to get an event,
and if you say you handled it,
well then it's not going to
fall through to the toolbox,
which may do something,
or it may do nothing,
but you got first crack at that event,
and that's the important part.
This is a conceptual
picture of an event target.
So here we have an event
target with three handlers.
The one on the bottom is for the object.
So, let's use the example of a window.
That object handler might be the DefProc,
or the DefProc replacement
in terms of Carbon Events.
On top of that, the toolbox might have
installed its own handler,
which provides standard behaviors,
like dragging the window around.
But on top of that,
your application might have
pushed another handler.
And that handler might say, "Well,
you know, I like all that drag
window stuff you're doing,
but I really want it to dock to
the size of the screen." That's
where you'd actually be able to tap
in and override what was going on.
So when an event comes in,
it tries to go down as far as it
can through that stack of handlers,
and eventually yields a result.
Either it was handled,
or it was not handled.
If it wasn't handled,
we end up trying to send it to
another target in the event system.
And we use our, what we term,
our standard containment hierarchy
of the toolbox to determine this.
And the hierarchy is largely defined by
windows and controls and sub-controls.
We rely on control
embedding for a lot of this.
And events are automatically sent
to the innermost object possible.
If you click on a button,
the button will get the click first,
then the window, and then it will fall
through to the application.
The application is like the catchall
for every event that we send out.
And this is just a picture of
that containment hierarchy.
It's pretty standard.
Shouldn't surprise you.
When we send an event out,
it may or may not be processed.
So if the toolbox gets a click,
we may send it out to some specific
object and it may not be handled.
Well, we may decide
Well, we kind of know what it is,
so we're going to send out
another event which has a little
bit more semantic meaning.
So, what started as a click could
cascade into something really
meaningful like "Window Moved."
And in general,
you want to listen to the higher level
events rather than the lower level
events because it means you didn't
have to do all the code necessary
to actually drag the window around.
So, if we take a visual example of that,
say a click comes into an application,
and we send it out,
nobody responds to it, we feel bad,
but we turn around and we take that,
and we actually say, "Oh, you know what?
That was on the Zoom box.
Let's tell people it was on the
Zoom box." So we send out another
event saying the Zoom box was hit,
and nobody responds.
We still feel bad, but anyways,
we go on and we say,
Oh, we know what to do when that happens.
We'll just track the widget.
Oh, it was a successful trap,
a successful tracking, whatever.
So, let's just broadcast out that
the window needs to be zoomed.
and if nobody cares about that,
we'll just zoom the window and say, "Hey,
the window was zoomed." Now the benefit
of all of this is that you can actually
tap in at any one of these levels and
intercept any one of these events to get
the level of functionality that you want.
You might not care
about any of this stuff.
Maybe you don't even care
that the window is zoomed.
You know,
you want to support that feature,
but you don't want to deal with
the code necessary to drive that.
We can take care of that.
Maybe you really have a problem with
the way the toolbox does zooming.
I can't imagine that, but if you do,
you can just override that part of it.
It's totally up to you.
So we have a lot of
events that we've defined.
We used to be limited by
the size of the Event Mask.
The Event Mask was limited to 16 events,
because the Event Mask was 16 bits wide.
Kind of limiting.
In the Carbon Event Model,
we have lots of events.
We went nuts.
Some of these events you already know.
You know things like mouse down,
you know things like window update,
window activate.
But we also introduced a
whole new set of events,
things like control hit,
process a command please,
or the window was moved
or it zoomed or whatever.
I want to talk about a couple of
specific events that have changed,
or maybe are a little better.
Maybe I should have shown that later.
So the first one,
I want to talk about mouse events.
We now actually have
multi-button mouse support.
If the system tells us that
the right mouse button was hit,
we'll tell you.
I mean, we have no problem.
We just give you the information.
And also, if you load up DP4,
hook up your favorite USB mouse,
and start moving the mouse wheel,
we're going to start sending
you mouse wheel events.
And if you actually look at the
simple text example that is on DP4,
you'll see how to handle it.
It's kind of a hack, but it works.
And the last thing is we
have multi-click detection,
so you don't necessarily need to
determine that a double-click happened.
We'll just tell you.
Alright, now to make you sad.
Keyboard input is actually
different than it was.
It used to be pretty simple.
You get an event, it had a key character,
I mean a key code,
and the actual character that was typed.
What we want to do in Carbon is
provide full Unicode keyboard input.
So we changed things a little bit.
Now I'm going to jump to the last point,
which is that if you're
calling WaitNextEvent,
you're still going to get keyboard
events just like you're used to.
Nothing has changed.
However,
if you're using the new event model,
you need to be aware
of a couple of things.
First,
there are two types of keyboard events.
There are the Raw Key Events,
which are the ones that just basically
tell you which virtual key was pressed.
And then, those can actually build
up into Text Input Events,
and that happens through TSM.
TSM is built-in.
This means that your app doesn't
necessarily have to become TSM-aware.
It is TSM-aware if it's
a Carbon application,
automatically.
So the raw key events, like I said,
they're pretty much
just a virtual key code.
But TSM actually does do a
little bit of processing on
that before it hands it to you.
But the result of that may
not be what you expect.
The event may not have any
character information in it.
It may be part of a dead key sequence.
Or it may have multiple characters in it,
depending on the keyboard layout.
and TSM just uses these and
processes them and talks to input
methods in terms of these events.
But the most interesting
low-level keyboard event is the
Keyboard Modifiers Changed event.
With this, you don't have to poll
for modifiers anymore.
We'll just tell you that
the modifiers changed.
It's very simple, which is another reason
that you don't have to poll.
So the actual Text Input Event,
when it comes to you,
is one or more Unicode characters.
And this is the result of
TSM talking to any input method
that may be present or up.
And finally,
it'll just give you some Unichars.
If you actually look in carbonevents.h,
you'll see the text input
events and what their names are.
And you'll notice that they
look very similar to what the
old TSM Apple events were.
And that's because the
Carbon Event version of those
events is the replacement
for the old TSM Apple events.
This doesn't mean that we
won't send those Apple events.
It only means that we will only
send the Apple events if nobody
responded to the Carbon event.
So, in that way, we actually prefer the
Carbon Event model.
What advantage of...
Having a text input event like this is
that you can actually unify keyboard
filters and paste filters into one
thing by just always assuming that
you might have more than one character
coming in to your edit text fields.
And text input is a unique
problem in that we need to
know where the text input goes.
If we have something like a mouse down,
it's pretty evident where it goes.
We just look at what
window it happened to hit.
With keyboard event,
with a keyboard input event,
we kind of need to have something
tell us where the event should go.
And in Mac OS 8,
we had a concept of the keyboard
focus for any given window.
And that's fine, that's great,
we love it.
But we need to know which window.
So we have this concept of user focus,
which is a combination of a window and
any focused control in that window.
If the window happens to have... well,
the toolbox defines this, the user focus,
to be the currently focused control
in the frontmost document window.
That's our definition of it.
If that window happens
to have no controls,
or nothing has focus,
then it's the window.
In order to send an
event to the user focus,
we have an API called
Get User Focus Target.
And that might actually return the
target for a control or a window.
But it's really not important.
You just want to give the text
to somebody who might care.
If, for example,
you need to redirect the user focus,
you could do that.
The best example that I can provide
for this is you have flowing
palettes in your application.
And you're typing in your document,
and then the user clicks
in a floating palette.
And now you want the
keyboard focus to go there.
You can use Set User Focus Window to say,
"That's the window that has focus now.
Please send all text input there,
and we'll obey that." And that would
be the way that you would override it.
Normally,
the toolbox deals with all of this stuff,
and you don't need to.
In Mac OS 8, we introduced the
concept of Menu Commands,
which was not a new concept,
but it allowed a position-independent
way of identifying your menu items.
What we've done in Carbon Events is we've
created these things called HI Commands,
which are essentially just a
wrapper around those menu commands.
They basically contain the command,
plus a little bit of extra information
necessary in order to have the
toolbox dispatch it properly.
And why is that important?
Well,
we actually want to dispatch commands
to the originator of the command first,
and then send it to user focus.
So let me give you an example of why we'd
want to send it to the originator first.
Best example there is a plugin.
A plugin might install a
menu into the menu bar.
And it would really love to
just get those events itself.
All it would need to
do is install the menu,
install the menu handler on that menu,
and then whenever a selection
was made from that menu,
it would actually
inform the plugin first.
And if the plugin said,
"I handled it," that would be it.
End of processing.
Why you would want it to go to the user
focus is because usually commands and
menus apply to the currently selected
control or field or something like that.
The best example is an Edit Text field.
You know, cut, copy, and paste obviously
apply to the user focus.
and we've predefined a whole bunch of
commands if you look in Carbon events
dot h uh... we have things for like quit,
copy, paste,
uh... a number of things and the
interesting thing is that a control can
actually generate a command as well and
we'll actually see an example of that
very shortly so short in fact that it's
now so what i'd like to do is actually
bring up Guy Fullerton who works
on HLTV with me to show you a little
demo and he's actually over there
Okay, so if I can switch over
to the demo machine,
that would be helpful.
So as Ed mentioned earlier
in the presentation,
the toolbox is attempting
to become a framework.
It's attempting to do a lot of
the work that your applications
used to have to do on its own.
And we want to make your lives easier
and allow you guys to write a lot less
code and just deal with the code that
gives your app the unique functionality.
And I want to show you a
couple of admittedly fairly
simple examples of that.
The first one is a simple
Hello World application.
It's got one source file.
Fairly short, about a page,
page and a half of code.
Our main does some fairly simple stuff.
We install a standard menu bar.
We create a window.
We install an event
handler on that window.
We show the window.
And we call the run application event
loop API that Ed mentioned earlier.
And then we quit.
When our event loop exits,
we're going to end up being done.
Our window handler looks for two events.
We look for a draw content event,
and we look for a window close event.
We do a little bit of special processing.
I have a routine which
does my window drawing.
And then I have a utility function
I called for my main routine
called install standard menu bar.
There's no event processing
in this code at all.
I'm never calling wait next event.
I'm never fetching events.
I'm never looking for
clicks in the menu bar,
clicks in windows, or anything like that.
And when I run the app,
You get the simple app.
And it does a lot of the
stuff that your application
normally has to do on its own.
It tracks menus,
you can move the window around,
you can grow it, you can window shade it,
and do all the stuff that
you would expect a normal
Mac OS X application to do,
and you did it in about a page,
page and a half of code.
So I want to show you a
slightly more complex example.
When we're doing work on the toolbox,
we're doing a lot of
work on user interface.
And the last several months
have been spent on Aqua.
And we have to do a lot of checking to
make sure our interface is just right.
We need to zoom in the pixels
and make sure the right shadowing
is going on and all this stuff.
But for Mac OS X,
we didn't have a tool to help us do that.
So last year, we actually wrote a tool
called Magnify to do that.
And we thought, well,
we're writing an app for the ground up.
We might as well test out
our Carbon event model
and see how that's going.
So we decided to implement
it with Carbon events.
And it ended up being really,
really easy to do.
So once again,
I just have one source file.
It's a little bit
longer than Hello World,
probably four pages of code, maybe.
One of the main pieces of code
is a timer that I'd mentioned.
We've got a timer that
executes every so often.
This is the real meat of the application
right here in this one function.
We have a routine which
creates our window,
right here.
We have an event handler for that window,
which only looks for one event,
I believe.
And we have a command handler that
we're going to end up installing
on the application to handle
a few special menu commands.
And finally we've got our main.
You know,
probably only 10-12 lines of real code.
We install a menu bar,
we install our application handler.
We jump through some hoops so
our timer can do some work later,
and then we create our window.
So it's not a super simple app,
but as you can see,
it really only did the work that
matters to that application.
And when I run it,
we get our Magnify app,
which simply magnifies the
pixels underneath wherever
the mouse happens to be.
And Ed mentioned timers
and how they fire,
sometimes when you may
not necessarily expect,
but when it's still very powerful.
So if I happen to, oh I don't know,
drag the window around, you can see that,
well, the timer's still firing,
it's still updating the window,
it's not exactly an interesting update.
But if I pull down the menus,
the timer's still firing,
it's still drawing into the window.
And the few menu commands I wired
up get sent to the application and
I change the magnification level.
And the last example I'd like to show
you actually ties into Interface Builder.
Interface Builder is one of the new
tools we're showing on Mac OS X,
and we've done a lot
of Carbon integration
into Interface Builder.
It's got a way by which you can
create a Carbon application.
Let's see.
I can select Carbon Application Nib Base.
This takes you through a little
assistant to do those kinds of things,
but I've already got a project set up.
So I'll go ahead and open that up.
And this is what it would look
like when you first create it.
It's got two interesting pieces in it.
It's got some source, simple main.c,
probably only about
20 lines of real code.
It simply loads the interface from a nib
and creates a window which is also from a
nib and calls run application event loop.
And the nib is what defines
a little bit of interface.
It's fairly simple.
Once again, it's just a window.
And Interface Builder does
this for you automatically.
It creates sort of a simple one
window application interface.
And if I run that--
You get what you expect:
a simple one-window
application interface.
Once again,
we do all the standard behavior for you.
We track the menus, we move the window,
we resize the window,
we can window shade the window,
and do all those things you would expect.
But I want to go a little,
one step further.
Let's actually add some
functionality to the app,
and at the same time... Let's cancel
that and get that out of the way.
Oh, that's not what I want.
That works.
Okay, we're back in the nib.
He'd mentioned that you can
attach commands to controls.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'll drag a button out of the interface
builder palette and put it in the window.
And if I bring up the
inspector for that button,
it's got a field by which you can
associate a command ID to that control.
Now there's a whole bunch of standard
system commands that we offer,
and our application event loop
pays attention to these commands
and does what you would expect.
So I can go ahead and just
tell that control that,
"Hey, you issue the quit command."
And I'll save my nib.
Go back, rebuild.
Should take a second.
Done.
Rerun.
[Transcript missing]
So, you've just seen an example where
you can basically bring up an
interface from some data store,
in this case an interface builder nib,
and have the toolbox deal with all
the user interaction in that window,
and then potentially just tell
you about the interesting things.
Well, it seems like we kind of
already had something like that,
and we used to call
it the Dialog Manager.
Everybody's friend, the Dialog Manager.
Well, with all the stuff that we've
been working on in Carbon Events,
the Dialog Manager is
effectively obsolete.
This doesn't mean it's not supported,
this doesn't mean they were
taking it away from you,
but it does mean that you can do pretty
much anything that you could have done in
a dialogue with pure Carbon events now.
We have things like
interface builder support.
We have the ability to actually
reference a control by an
arbitrary ID that you assign.
And we also will be supporting
window modality without actually
resorting to using modal dialog.
The best example of where we're
headed with that is if you check
out the Adopting Aqua session,
which is tomorrow,
You'll actually see how some of our
Sheet APIs rely on this modality,
and Sheets are completely
Carbon Event based.
I mentioned at the beginning that
we're trying to unify different models.
One of those models is the DefProc model.
Instead of a callback-based DefProc,
what we really wanted was
an event-based DefProc,
and we have that.
In DP4, windows and controls are
completely driven through events.
The old DefProcs don't exist anymore.
This doesn't mean you
can't create a button,
of course.
But Carbon Events is the native model.
And we're just going to keep
doing more and more of this as
we go forward with the toolbox.
And the beauty here is that
you can override these events
like you would anything else.
If you don't like the
way the control draws,
intercept the draw and
do something cooler.
I don't know.
Actually,
if you stick around for the second
session-- that's my plug to keep you
here-- we'll actually show you an
example of some of the cool things
that you can do with this stuff.
And while we redid this
stuff in Carbon Events,
we took the opportunity to
actually clean up the messages,
get rid of some old messages
that didn't make any sense.
And of course,
the beauty of all of this is
that def procs were really weird.
It's the best word I could think of.
I mean, for each different message,
you needed to learn the arcane
rules of what would come
through the param parameter and
what you should be returning.
And in controls,
there was this thing like test new
message support and all this weird stuff.
Carbon Events just make that go away.
I also mentioned at the beginning
that we wanted an API that
would encourage performance,
specifically on Mac OS X.
We do that in a number of ways.
The first is timers.
It is highly recommended that
you use timers instead of small
timeouts and wait next event.
This is largely because timers are
much more efficient to fire when
you're already in the event loop.
Restarting the event loop has a cost.
Another way to help your app
perform well on Mac OS X is
to adopt Track Mouse Location.
The second session shows
an example of that.
And again, I mentioned at the beginning
that this is a way to rewrite
your mouse tracking loops.
The traditional mouse tracking loop
will actually pin the CPU on Mac OS X.
You can listen to events like
the Modifiers Changed event,
which is an example of an event
that we're sending out now
that you didn't have before,
so you had to resort to polling.
And in fact,
if there is anything that you
know of that you are polling
for in your application,
we absolutely want to know so
that we can try our best to
get an event in there instead.
I mean, making it work that way
is for all our benefits.
And another thing that we want to do is
move to something called Tracking Areas.
This isn't in there right now.
I'm not sure exactly when it will be.
But, right now we send your application
tons of mouse-move events.
Every time the mouse moves one pixel,
you have an event.
Which is good in some cases,
but in a lot of cases, you don't care.
All you want to know is,
did the mouse enter or exit this
particular region of my window?
Because I need to update
the cursor or something.
Well,
Tracking Areas are a way to do that.
And hopefully they'll come online soon.
So, with that,
I mean there's a lot of stuff here.
So much stuff that
I have a second session.
Did I mention my second session?
So, what you should be seeing from this
is that the toolbox is largely doing
all the work for you these days,
and we want to continue on that path.
We want to make it such that when
you write an application for Carbon,
the only lines of code that
you write are the kinds that
are unique to your application.
That is what it's all about.
It's also important to know that learning
Carbon Events is important in that
everything we do from this point forward
will be in terms of Carbon Events.
Carbon Events is our messaging model.
Carbon Events is our event model.
Carbon Events is our notification model.
And once you learn that one paradigm,
you've learned them all.
and I mentioned you get new
toolbox features essentially
for free and the way that
The way that you get that is just because
we can start sending out new events.
And if you're really Carbon Event savvy,
you're probably not looking for them
because they're like new and stuff.
So we can actually send these new events,
implement new functionality,
and then when your app is ready,
you can actually start tapping
into that functionality.
So we won't get into a lot of the
problems that we've had in the past
trying to implement functionality a la
Windows Shade behind your app's back.
And the best part,
the absolute best part,
is that this is a gradual adoption path.
There is no need for you to
even rewrite one line of code
just to make your app port.
However,
if you want to make it perform well,
you might have to do a couple of things.
Beyond that, you can start installing
handlers on a case-by-case basis
throughout your application.
We're not telling you
to rewrite your app.
We don't want you to have to
completely rewrite your app.
That's the whole point of Carbon.
I don't know.
This stuff is just cooler than cool.
And if you're not seeing that,
I don't know what to do.
Can you tell I'm excited about it?
In any case,
what I'd like to do is have you check
out carbonevents.h start looking at it.
The API is really refined now.
This is one of the few projects
where I've been able to actually
get time to really refine the
API over and over and over again.
If you've actually been
following Carbon Events,
you know that it's changed over time.
Now I think we have a really,
really highly refined API that
actually feels really good as well.
So please take a look.
Check out all the events we have.
And let us know what other
events you might need.
I mean,
sometimes a lot of these are easy.
We've had requests, for example,
people want to know we want to know
when the window is hidden or shown.
Well, that's easy for us.
We can just add an event and send it out,
and then you get that notification.
No need to patch.
Another simple thing
you can do is right now,
on your PowerBook,
just pass MaxLong into your
sleep time on WaitNext Event and
start installing timers.
They're really easy to adopt.
And of course, you want lots of feedback,
and you can direct your
feedback to toolbox@apple.com,
or you can talk to your pal, Dave Wright.
And I'd like to bring Dave Wright back
up here so he can lead us
through the roadmap and onto Q&A.
Thanks.
Thanks, Ed.
So, can we get all into Ed's head?
This stuff is cool, no?
Let's, I mean, just give it up.
It's just amazing stuff.
So, alright.
So I just want to do a brief
overview of the roadmap that kind of
follows on to this kind of content.
Right after this session,
there's the advanced
session of Carbon Events.
So go ahead and get a
drink and come on back.
Tomorrow, the high-level toolbox team is
going to be giving a session
on adopting the Aqua interface.
So those are high-level toolbox changes
to APIs that are specifically about Aqua.
And then there'll be two other sessions,
one on Thursday and one on Friday,
about generic high-level toolbox changes
that affect all Carbon applications.
So be sure to go to those sessions to get
your apps carbonized as best possible.
At this time...